README.md, before:

# Magistrala

[![Check License Header](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-license.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-license.yaml)
[![Check the consistency of generated files](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-generated-files.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-generated-files.yml)
[![Continuous Delivery](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![go report card][grc-badge]][grc-url]
[![coverage][cov-badge]][cov-url]
[![license][license]](LICENSE)
[![chat][gitter-badge]][gitter]

![banner][banner]

Magistrala is modern, scalable, secure, open-source, and patent-free IoT cloud platform written in Go.

It accepts user and thing (sensor, actuator, application) connections over various network protocols (i.e. HTTP, MQTT, WebSocket, CoAP), thus making a seamless bridge between them. It is used as the IoT middleware for building complex IoT solutions.

For more details, check out the [official documentation][docs].

## Features

- Multi-protocol connectivity and bridging (HTTP, MQTT, WebSocket and CoAP)
- Device management and provisioning (Zero Touch provisioning)
- Mutual TLS Authentication (mTLS) using X.509 Certificates
- Fine-grained access control (policies, ABAC/RBAC)
- Message persistence (Cassandra, InfluxDB, MongoDB and PostgresSQL)
- Platform logging and instrumentation support (Prometheus and OpenTelemetry)
- Event sourcing
- Container-based deployment using [Docker][docker] and [Kubernetes][kubernetes]
- [LoRaWAN][lora] network integration
- [OPC UA][opcua] integration
- Edge [Agent][agent] and [Export][export] services for remote IoT gateway management and edge computing
- SDK
- CLI
- Small memory footprint and fast execution
- Domain-driven design architecture, high-quality code and test coverage

## Prerequisites

The following are needed to run Magistrala:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) (version 26.0.0)

Developing Magistrala will also require:

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) (version 1.21)
- [Protobuf](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf#protocol-compiler-installation) (version 25.1)

## Install

Once the prerequisites are installed, execute the following commands from the project's root:

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml --env-file docker/.env -p git_github_com_absmach_magistrala_git_  up
```

This will bring up the Magistrala docker services and interconnect them. This command can also be executed using the project's included Makefile:

```bash
make run
```

If you want to run services from specific release checkout code from github and make sure that
`MG_RELEASE_TAG` in [.env](.env) is being set to match the release version

```bash
git checkout tags/<release_number> -b <release_number>
# e.g. `git checkout tags/0.13.0 -b 0.13.0`
```

Check that `.env` file contains:

```bash
MG_RELEASE_TAG=<release_number>
```

> `docker-compose` should be used for development and testing deployments. For production we suggest using [Kubernetes](https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/kubernetes).

## Usage

The quickest way to start using Magistrala is via the CLI. The latest version can be downloaded from the [official releases page][releases].

It can also be built and used from the project's root directory:

```bash
make cli
./build/cli version
```

Additional details on using the CLI can be found in the [CLI documentation](https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/cli).

## Documentation

Official documentation is hosted at [Magistrala official docs page][docs]. Documentation is auto-generated, checkout the instructions on [official docs repository](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala-docs):

If you spot an error or a need for corrections, please let us know - or even better: send us a PR.

## Authors

Main architect and BDFL of Magistrala project is [@drasko][drasko].

Additionally, [@nmarcetic][nikola] and [@janko-isidorovic][janko] assured overall architecture and design, while [@manuio][manu] and [@darkodraskovic][darko] helped with crafting initial implementation and continuously worked on the project evolutions.

Besides them, Magistrala is constantly improved and actively developed by [@anovakovic01][alex], [@dusanb94][dusan], [@srados][sava], [@gsaleh][george], [@blokovi][iva], [@chombium][kole], [@mteodor][mirko], [@rodneyosodo][rodneyosodo] and a large set of contributors.

Maintainers are listed in [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS) file.

The Magistrala team would like to give special thanks to [@mijicd][dejan] for his monumental work on designing and implementing a highly improved and optimized version of the platform, and [@malidukica][dusanm] for his effort on implementing the initial user interface.

## Professional Support

There are many companies offering professional support for the Magistrala system.

If you need this kind of support, best is to reach out to [@drasko][drasko] directly, and he will point you out to the best-matching support team.

## Contributing

Thank you for your interest in Magistrala and the desire to contribute!

1. Take a look at our [open issues](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/issues). The [good-first-issue](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/labels/good-first-issue) label is specifically for issues that are great for getting started.
2. Checkout the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn more about our style and conventions.
3. Make your changes compatible to our workflow.

### We're Hiring

You like Magistrala and you would like to make it your day job? We're always looking for talented engineers interested in open-source, IoT and distributed systems. If you recognize yourself, reach out to [@drasko][drasko] - he will contact you back.

> The best way to grab our attention is, of course, by sending PRs :sunglasses:.

## Community

- [Google group][forum]
- [Gitter][gitter]
- [Twitter][twitter]

## License

[Apache-2.0](LICENSE)

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fabsmach%2Fmagistrala.svg?type=large&issueType=license)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fabsmach%2Fmagistrala?ref=badge_large&issueType=license)
## Data Collection for Magistrala

Magistrala is committed to continuously improving its services and ensuring a seamless experience for its users. To achieve this, we collect certain data from your deployments. Rest assured, this data is collected solely for the purpose of enhancing Magistrala and is not used with any malicious intent. The deployment summary can be found on our [website][callhome].

The collected data includes:

- **IP Address** - Used for approximate location information on deployments.
- **Services Used** - To understand which features are popular and prioritize future developments.
- **Last Seen Time** - To ensure the stability and availability of Magistrala.
- **Magistrala Version** - To track the software version and deliver relevant updates.

We take your privacy and data security seriously. All data collected is handled in accordance with our stringent privacy policies and industry best practices.

Data collection is on by default and can be disabled by setting the env variable:
`MG_SEND_TELEMETRY=false`

By utilizing Magistrala, you actively contribute to its improvement. Together, we can build a more robust and efficient IoT platform. Thank you for your trust in Magistrala!

[banner]: https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala-docs/blob/main/docs/img/gopherBanner.jpg
[docs]: https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr
[docker]: https://www.docker.com
[forum]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mainflux
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/absmach/magistrala?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
[grc-badge]: https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/andychao217/magistrala
[grc-url]: https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/andychao217/magistrala
[cov-badge]: https://codecov.io/gh/absmach/magistrala/graph/badge.svg?token=SEMDAO3L09
[cov-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/absmach/magistrala
[license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%20v2.0-blue.svg
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/absmach
[lora]: https://lora-alliance.org/
[opcua]: https://opcfoundation.org/about/opc-technologies/opc-ua/
[agent]: https://github.com/andychao217/agent
[export]: https://github.com/absmach/export
[kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io/
[releases]: https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/releases
[drasko]: https://github.com/drasko
[nikola]: https://github.com/nmarcetic
[dejan]: https://github.com/mijicd
[manu]: https://github.com/manuIO
[darko]: https://github.com/darkodraskovic
[janko]: https://github.com/janko-isidorovic
[alex]: https://github.com/anovakovic01
[dusan]: https://github.com/dborovcanin
[sava]: https://github.com/srados
[george]: https://github.com/gesaleh
[iva]: https://github.com/blokovi
[kole]: https://github.com/chombium
[dusanm]: https://github.com/malidukica
[mirko]: https://github.com/mteodor
[rodneyosodo]: https://github.com/rodneyosodo
[callhome]: https://deployments.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/

Commit message:

MG-2187 - Simplify Magistrala core repository (#2338)

README.md, after:

# Magistrala

[![Check License Header](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-license.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-license.yaml)
[![Check the consistency of generated files](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-generated-files.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/check-generated-files.yml)
[![Continuous Delivery](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![go report card][grc-badge]][grc-url]
[![coverage][cov-badge]][cov-url]
[![license][license]](LICENSE)
[![chat][gitter-badge]][gitter]

![banner][banner]

Magistrala is modern, scalable, secure, open-source, and patent-free IoT cloud platform written in Go.

It accepts user and thing (sensor, actuator, application) connections over various network protocols (i.e. HTTP, MQTT, WebSocket, CoAP), thus making a seamless bridge between them. It is used as the IoT middleware for building complex IoT solutions.

For more details, check out the [official documentation][docs].
For extra bits and services see [our contrib repository][contrib].

## Features

- Multi-protocol connectivity and bridging (HTTP, MQTT, WebSocket and CoAP; see [contrib repository][contrib] for LoRa and OPC UA)
- Device management and provisioning (Zero Touch provisioning)
- Mutual TLS Authentication (mTLS) using X.509 Certificates
- Fine-grained access control (policies, ABAC/RBAC)
- Message persistence (Timescale and PostgresSQL - see [contrib repository][contrib] for Cassandra, InfluxDB, and MongoDB support)
- Platform logging and instrumentation support (Prometheus and OpenTelemetry)
- Event sourcing
- Container-based deployment using [Docker][docker] and [Kubernetes][kubernetes]
- Edge [Agent][agent] and [Export][export] services for remote IoT gateway management and edge computing
- SDK
- CLI
- Small memory footprint and fast execution
- Domain-driven design architecture, high-quality code and test coverage

## Prerequisites

The following are needed to run Magistrala:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) (version 26.0.0)

Developing Magistrala will also require:

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) (version 1.21)
- [Protobuf](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf#protocol-compiler-installation) (version 25.1)

## Install

Once the prerequisites are installed, execute the following commands from the project's root:

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml --env-file docker/.env -p git_github_com_absmach_magistrala_git_  up
```

This will bring up the Magistrala docker services and interconnect them. This command can also be executed using the project's included Makefile:

```bash
make run
```

If you want to run services from specific release checkout code from github and make sure that
`MG_RELEASE_TAG` in [.env](.env) is being set to match the release version

```bash
git checkout tags/<release_number> -b <release_number>
# e.g. `git checkout tags/0.13.0 -b 0.13.0`
```

Check that `.env` file contains:

```bash
MG_RELEASE_TAG=<release_number>
```

> `docker-compose` should be used for development and testing deployments. For production we suggest using [Kubernetes](https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/kubernetes).

## Usage

The quickest way to start using Magistrala is via the CLI. The latest version can be downloaded from the [official releases page][releases].

It can also be built and used from the project's root directory:

```bash
make cli
./build/cli version
```

Additional details on using the CLI can be found in the [CLI documentation](https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/cli).

## Documentation

Official documentation is hosted at [Magistrala official docs page][docs]. Documentation is auto-generated, checkout the instructions on [official docs repository](https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala-docs):

If you spot an error or a need for corrections, please let us know - or even better: send us a PR.

## Authors

Main architect and BDFL of Magistrala project is [@drasko][drasko].

Additionally, [@nmarcetic][nikola] and [@janko-isidorovic][janko] assured overall architecture and design, while [@manuio][manu] and [@darkodraskovic][darko] helped with crafting initial implementation and continuously worked on the project evolutions.

Besides them, Magistrala is constantly improved and actively developed by [@anovakovic01][alex], [@dusanb94][dusan], [@srados][sava], [@gsaleh][george], [@blokovi][iva], [@chombium][kole], [@mteodor][mirko], [@rodneyosodo][rodneyosodo] and a large set of contributors.

Maintainers are listed in [MAINTAINERS](MAINTAINERS) file.

The Magistrala team would like to give special thanks to [@mijicd][dejan] for his monumental work on designing and implementing a highly improved and optimized version of the platform, and [@malidukica][dusanm] for his effort on implementing the initial user interface.

## Professional Support

There are many companies offering professional support for the Magistrala system.

If you need this kind of support, best is to reach out to [@drasko][drasko] directly, and he will point you out to the best-matching support team.

## Contributing

Thank you for your interest in Magistrala and the desire to contribute!

1. Take a look at our [open issues](https://github.com/absmach/magistrala/issues). The [good-first-issue](https://github.com/absmach/magistrala/labels/good-first-issue) label is specifically for issues that are great for getting started.
2. Checkout the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn more about our style and conventions.
3. Make your changes compatible to our workflow.

Also, explore our [contrib][contrib] repository for extra services such as Cassandra, InfluxDB, MongoDB readers and writers, LoRa, OPC UA support, Digital Twins, and more. If you have a contribution that is not a good fit for the core monorepo (it's specific to your use case, it's an additional feature or a new service, it's optional or an add-on), this is a great place to submit the pull request.

### We're Hiring

You like Magistrala and you would like to make it your day job? We're always looking for talented engineers interested in open-source, IoT and distributed systems. If you recognize yourself, reach out to [@drasko][drasko] - he will contact you back.

> The best way to grab our attention is, of course, by sending PRs :sunglasses:.

## Community

- [Google group][forum]
- [Gitter][gitter]
- [Twitter][twitter]

## License

[Apache-2.0](LICENSE)

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fabsmach%2Fmagistrala.svg?type=large&issueType=license)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fabsmach%2Fmagistrala?ref=badge_large&issueType=license)
## Data Collection for Magistrala

Magistrala is committed to continuously improving its services and ensuring a seamless experience for its users. To achieve this, we collect certain data from your deployments. Rest assured, this data is collected solely for the purpose of enhancing Magistrala and is not used with any malicious intent. The deployment summary can be found on our [website][callhome].

The collected data includes:

- **IP Address** - Used for approximate location information on deployments.
- **Services Used** - To understand which features are popular and prioritize future developments.
- **Last Seen Time** - To ensure the stability and availability of Magistrala.
- **Magistrala Version** - To track the software version and deliver relevant updates.

We take your privacy and data security seriously. All data collected is handled in accordance with our stringent privacy policies and industry best practices.

Data collection is on by default and can be disabled by setting the env variable:
`MG_SEND_TELEMETRY=false`

By utilizing Magistrala, you actively contribute to its improvement. Together, we can build a more robust and efficient IoT platform. Thank you for your trust in Magistrala!

[banner]: https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala-docs/blob/main/docs/img/gopherBanner.jpg
[docs]: https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr
[docker]: https://www.docker.com
[forum]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mainflux
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/absmach/magistrala?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg
[grc-badge]: https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/andychao217/magistrala
[grc-url]: https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/andychao217/magistrala
[cov-badge]: https://codecov.io/gh/absmach/magistrala/graph/badge.svg?token=SEMDAO3L09
[cov-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/absmach/magistrala
[license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%20v2.0-blue.svg
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/absmach
[agent]: https://github.com/andychao217/agent
[export]: https://github.com/absmach/export
[kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io/
[releases]: https://github.com/andychao217/magistrala/releases
[drasko]: https://github.com/drasko
[nikola]: https://github.com/nmarcetic
[dejan]: https://github.com/mijicd
[manu]: https://github.com/manuIO
[darko]: https://github.com/darkodraskovic
[janko]: https://github.com/janko-isidorovic
[alex]: https://github.com/anovakovic01
[dusan]: https://github.com/dborovcanin
[sava]: https://github.com/srados
[george]: https://github.com/gesaleh
[iva]: https://github.com/blokovi
[kole]: https://github.com/chombium
[dusanm]: https://github.com/malidukica
[mirko]: https://github.com/mteodor
[rodneyosodo]: https://github.com/rodneyosodo
[callhome]: https://deployments.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/
[contrib]: https://www.github.com/absmach/mg-contrib
